README.md, before:

# How to run MTR in Carla
1. Download the [trained model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11q367vF-fR0U3zF067PQPMts1P2d-KBz/view?usp=drive_link) and put it under `carla_api/model`.
2. Install Carla Python API.
3. Start Carla server.
4. Run `python3 setup.py develop`
5. Run `python3 carla_api/scripts/automatic_control.py`

# TODO list
- [ ] Add information of bike lane
- [ ] Add information of stop sign and speed bump
- [ ] Check interpolating lanes
- [ ] Check `feature_id` attribute in `left_boundary` and `right_boundary` of the lane
- [ ] Check `global_type`
- [ ] Distinguish between `road_line` and `road_edge`
- [ ] Add information of traffic light
- [x] Model output is incorrect. Probably caused by coordinate normalization
- [ ] Carla crashes at junctions.

# Motion Transformer (MTR): A Strong Baseline for Multimodal Motion Prediction in Autonomous Driving


![teaser](docs/mtr_demo.png)


This repository is the official implementation of the NeurIPS 2022 paper (oral presentation) ["Motion Transformer with Global Intention Localization and Local Movement Refinement"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13508). 

Authors: Shaoshuai Shi, Li Jiang, Dengxin Dai, Bernt Schiele

[[MTR (arXiv)]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13508) &nbsp;&nbsp;  [[MTR++ (arXiv)]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770) 

## News
[2023-06] The formal paper of [`MTR++`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770) is released to [arXiv:2306.17770](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770), which support multi-agent motion prediction and achieve state-of-the-art performance on Waymo Open Dataset.

[2023-05] [`MTR++`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770) **won the Championship** of Waymo Open Dataset Motion Prediction Challenge 2023, see the leaderboard [here](https://waymo.com/open/challenges/2023/motion-prediction/).

[2022-06] [`MTR`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10033) **won the Championship** of Waymo Open Dataset Motion Prediction Challenge 2022, see the official post [here](https://waymo.com/open/challenges/). 



## Abstract
Predicting multimodal future behavior of traffic participants is essential for robotic vehicles to make safe decisions. Existing works explore to directly predict future trajectories based on latent features or utilize dense goal candidates to identify agent's destinations, where the former strategy converges slowly since all motion modes are derived from the same feature while the latter strategy has efficiency issue since its performance highly relies on the density of goal candidates. In this paper, we propose the [`Motion TRansformer (MTR)`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13508) framework that models motion prediction as the joint optimization of global intention localization and local movement refinement. Instead of using goal candidates, MTR incorporates spatial intention priors by adopting a small set of learnable motion query pairs. Each motion query pair takes charge of trajectory prediction and refinement for a specific motion mode, which stabilizes the training process and facilitates better multimodal predictions. Experiments show that MTR achieves state-of-the-art performance on both the marginal and joint motion prediction challenges, ranking $1^{st}$ on the leaderbaords of Waymo Open Motion Dataset.


## Highlights

### MTR Codebase

- [x] State-of-the-art performance with clear code structure, easy to be extended
- [x] A very simple context encoder for modeling agent/map relations
- [x] Motion decoder with learnable queries on intention points
- [x] Loss with Gaussian Mixture Model for multimodal motion prediction
- [x] Clear data processing and organization on Waymo Open Motion Dataset
- [x] Local evaluation tool with official Waymo Motion Evaluation API

### Method 
* **Simple**: pure transformer-based context encoder and motion decoder
* **Efficient**: model multimodal future prediction with a small number of learnable intention queries
* **Accurate**: rank 1st place at Waymo Motion Prediction leaderboard (last update: Feb 2023)

![teaser](docs/framework_mtr.png)



## Getting Started

- [Installation](docs/INSTALL.md)

- [Dataset Preparation](docs/DATASET_PREPARATION.md)

- [Training & Evaluation](docs/TRAIN_EVAL.md)


## Main Results

#### Performance on the validation set of Waymo Open Motion Dataset
|  Model  |  Training Set | minADE | minFDE | Miss Rate | mAP |
|---------|----------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|[MTR](tools/cfgs/waymo/mtr+20_percent_data.yaml)      | 20%            | 0.6697 | 1.3712 | 0.1668 | 0.3437 |
|[MTR](tools/cfgs/waymo/mtr+100_percent_data.yaml)      | 100%           | 0.6046 | 1.2251 | 0.1366 | 0.4164 |
|MTR-e2e  | 100%           | 0.5160 | 1.0404 | 0.1234 | 0.3245 |


#### Performance on the testing set of Waymo Open Motion Dataset
|  Model  |  Training Set | minADE | minFDE | Miss Rate | mAP |
|---------|----------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|[MTR](tools/cfgs/waymo/mtr+100_percent_data.yaml)      | 100%          | 0.6050 | 1.2207 | 0.1351 | 0.4129 |
|MTR-A (ens) | 100%           | 0.5640 | 1.1344 | 0.1160 | 0.4492 |




## Citation
If you find this work useful in your research, please consider cite:
```
@article{shi2022motion,
  title={Motion transformer with global intention localization and local movement refinement},
  author={Shi, Shaoshuai and Jiang, Li and Dai, Dengxin and Schiele, Bernt},
  journal={Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
  year={2022}
}

@article{shi2023mtr,
  title={MTR++: Multi-Agent Motion Prediction with Symmetric Scene Modeling and Guided Intention Querying},
  author={Shi, Shaoshuai and Jiang, Li and Dai, Dengxin and Schiele, Bernt},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.17770},
  year={2023}
}

@article{shi2022mtra,
  title={MTR-A: 1st Place Solution for 2022 Waymo Open Dataset Challenge--Motion Prediction},
  author={Shi, Shaoshuai and Jiang, Li and Dai, Dengxin and Schiele, Bernt},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.10033},
  year={2022}
}
```

Commit message:

add notes to further steps for MPC in READMD

README.md, after:

# How to run MTR in Carla
1. Download the [trained model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11q367vF-fR0U3zF067PQPMts1P2d-KBz/view?usp=drive_link) and put it under `carla_api/model`.
2. Install Carla Python API.
3. Start Carla server.
4. Run `python3 setup.py develop`
5. Run `python3 carla_api/scripts/automatic_control.py`

# MPC notes
- [ ] Minimum safe distance (`d_safe`) is too large. 0.5 should be enough.
- [ ] `STAY ON THE ROAD` constraints: currently, it's computing the distance between the ego vehicle's position and the next waypoint, which is incorrect. Should check the deviation from lane center instead.
- [ ] Cost function tries to minimize the distance between the ego vehicle and other closest vehicles, which doesn't make sense. Should just minimize the distance to the next waypoint, and leave safety distance to constraints.

# Motion Transformer (MTR): A Strong Baseline for Multimodal Motion Prediction in Autonomous Driving


![teaser](docs/mtr_demo.png)


This repository is the official implementation of the NeurIPS 2022 paper (oral presentation) ["Motion Transformer with Global Intention Localization and Local Movement Refinement"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13508). 

Authors: Shaoshuai Shi, Li Jiang, Dengxin Dai, Bernt Schiele

[[MTR (arXiv)]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13508) &nbsp;&nbsp;  [[MTR++ (arXiv)]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770) 

## News
[2023-06] The formal paper of [`MTR++`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770) is released to [arXiv:2306.17770](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770), which support multi-agent motion prediction and achieve state-of-the-art performance on Waymo Open Dataset.

[2023-05] [`MTR++`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17770) **won the Championship** of Waymo Open Dataset Motion Prediction Challenge 2023, see the leaderboard [here](https://waymo.com/open/challenges/2023/motion-prediction/).

[2022-06] [`MTR`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10033) **won the Championship** of Waymo Open Dataset Motion Prediction Challenge 2022, see the official post [here](https://waymo.com/open/challenges/). 



## Abstract
Predicting multimodal future behavior of traffic participants is essential for robotic vehicles to make safe decisions. Existing works explore to directly predict future trajectories based on latent features or utilize dense goal candidates to identify agent's destinations, where the former strategy converges slowly since all motion modes are derived from the same feature while the latter strategy has efficiency issue since its performance highly relies on the density of goal candidates. In this paper, we propose the [`Motion TRansformer (MTR)`](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.13508) framework that models motion prediction as the joint optimization of global intention localization and local movement refinement. Instead of using goal candidates, MTR incorporates spatial intention priors by adopting a small set of learnable motion query pairs. Each motion query pair takes charge of trajectory prediction and refinement for a specific motion mode, which stabilizes the training process and facilitates better multimodal predictions. Experiments show that MTR achieves state-of-the-art performance on both the marginal and joint motion prediction challenges, ranking $1^{st}$ on the leaderbaords of Waymo Open Motion Dataset.


## Highlights

### MTR Codebase

- [x] State-of-the-art performance with clear code structure, easy to be extended
- [x] A very simple context encoder for modeling agent/map relations
- [x] Motion decoder with learnable queries on intention points
- [x] Loss with Gaussian Mixture Model for multimodal motion prediction
- [x] Clear data processing and organization on Waymo Open Motion Dataset
- [x] Local evaluation tool with official Waymo Motion Evaluation API

### Method 
* **Simple**: pure transformer-based context encoder and motion decoder
* **Efficient**: model multimodal future prediction with a small number of learnable intention queries
* **Accurate**: rank 1st place at Waymo Motion Prediction leaderboard (last update: Feb 2023)

![teaser](docs/framework_mtr.png)



## Getting Started

- [Installation](docs/INSTALL.md)

- [Dataset Preparation](docs/DATASET_PREPARATION.md)

- [Training & Evaluation](docs/TRAIN_EVAL.md)


## Main Results

#### Performance on the validation set of Waymo Open Motion Dataset
|  Model  |  Training Set | minADE | minFDE | Miss Rate | mAP |
|---------|----------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|[MTR](tools/cfgs/waymo/mtr+20_percent_data.yaml)      | 20%            | 0.6697 | 1.3712 | 0.1668 | 0.3437 |
|[MTR](tools/cfgs/waymo/mtr+100_percent_data.yaml)      | 100%           | 0.6046 | 1.2251 | 0.1366 | 0.4164 |
|MTR-e2e  | 100%           | 0.5160 | 1.0404 | 0.1234 | 0.3245 |


#### Performance on the testing set of Waymo Open Motion Dataset
|  Model  |  Training Set | minADE | minFDE | Miss Rate | mAP |
|---------|----------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|[MTR](tools/cfgs/waymo/mtr+100_percent_data.yaml)      | 100%          | 0.6050 | 1.2207 | 0.1351 | 0.4129 |
|MTR-A (ens) | 100%           | 0.5640 | 1.1344 | 0.1160 | 0.4492 |




## Citation
If you find this work useful in your research, please consider cite:
```
@article{shi2022motion,
  title={Motion transformer with global intention localization and local movement refinement},
  author={Shi, Shaoshuai and Jiang, Li and Dai, Dengxin and Schiele, Bernt},
  journal={Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
  year={2022}
}

@article{shi2023mtr,
  title={MTR++: Multi-Agent Motion Prediction with Symmetric Scene Modeling and Guided Intention Querying},
  author={Shi, Shaoshuai and Jiang, Li and Dai, Dengxin and Schiele, Bernt},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.17770},
  year={2023}
}

@article{shi2022mtra,
  title={MTR-A: 1st Place Solution for 2022 Waymo Open Dataset Challenge--Motion Prediction},
  author={Shi, Shaoshuai and Jiang, Li and Dai, Dengxin and Schiele, Bernt},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.10033},
  year={2022}
}
```
